BBC news.

Democrats in the U.S. Congress have tabled the resolution demanding that the Vice President Mike Pence and the rest of cabinet strip Donald Trump off his presidential powers. They also formally started the process of impeaching the President for a second time over accusation he incited his supporters to attack congress last week.

The head of National Guard in the United States says he's been authorized to deploy up to 15,000 troops in Washington to bolster the security for Joe Biden's inauguration as president on January 20th. The FBI says armed protests has been planned for Washington and all 50 American state capitals.  

A number of major American companies have announced changes to their approaches to political funding in response to the violence in the capital. American Express, the hotel-chain Marriot and the chemical giant Dow are among those penalizing the Republican Party.

The social networking app, Parlor, which is popular with Donald Trump's supporters, is taking legal action against Amazon for breach of contract. The tech giant had withdrawn web hosting services last week, after expressing concern that posts encouraging violence won't be removed by Parlor.

The World Health Organization has warned that herd immunity against Covid-19 will not be achieved this year, despite vaccination programs already beginning in a number of countries. WHO officials said measures such as physical distancing and mask wearing would be needed for sometime to come.

South Africa has announced its land borders will be closed to most travellers until the middle of next month in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus. The President said the pandemic was at its most devastating with infection numbers far exceeding the first wave.

U.S. media reports say the Trump administration is to place Cuba back on a official list of state sponsors of terrorism. President Trump has repeatedly condemned Cuba over its support for the Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro.  

BBC news.
